feat: Expand codacy quickstart DOCS-470 (#1547)
codacy/docs: docs/getting-started/customizing-your-setup.md

---
description: Customizing your setup
---

> # Customizing your setup

Reviewer: To simplify, let's assume that this initial onboarding is just for the first repository. After the first repository is correctly set up [we'll have more guidance for the organization-level onboarding](https://codacy.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-471) (which will include adding and configuring the remaining repositories).

As such, I suggest that the title of this page is more connected to the act of configuring this first repository. Here are two suggestions:

> Configuring your repository

> Customizing your repository

Author: Makes sense.

I was looking into renaming the page to "Configuring your repository" and then wondered if renaming the page slightly to specify that it's the first repository would make sense:

* Codacy quickstart > Adding your first repository
* Customizing your setup > Configuring your first repository

Thoughts?

> Once you've [added your repositories](codacy-quickstart.md), you can customize your setup to adapt the analysis tools to your use case, avoid false positives, and integrate code coverage analysis into your quality pipeline.

Reviewer: We must be more assertive while recommending to customers that they perform these configurations. Essentially, they'll extract very little value from Codacy if they fail to go through these steps.

Instead of wording the instructions like "you can [...]", let's use imperative or even argumentative language to convince the users of the importance of doing these steps. You can [check the current page for blocking merge requests for examples](https://docs.codacy.com/faq/general/how-do-i-block-merging-prs-using-codacy-as-a-quality-gate/#adjusting-analysis-settings) on how to do this.

Author: Something like this?

```suggestion
Once you've [added your repositories](codacy-quickstart.md), we recommend that you customize your setup to adapt the analysis tools to your use case, avoid false positives, and integrate code coverage analysis into your quality pipeline.
```

Author: Fixed

To customize your setup, follow these steps:

1.  [Ignoring files](#ignoring-files)
1.  [Configuring tools and code patterns](#configuring-code-patterns)
1.  [Adding coverage reports](#adding-coverage-reports) (optional)

## 1. Ignoring files {: id="ignoring-files"}

> Ignoring non-essential files helps you avoid false positives, streamlines your quality pipeline, and encourages developers to adopt best practices and to keep following them.

Reviewer: This part highlights not only the advantage of ignoring files but also of configuring the tools and code patterns, since if users fail to do that they'll also receive results that don't interest them and can be considered false positives.

This is why ignoring files and configuring the tools and code patterns [were grouped together under this section](https://docs.codacy.com/faq/general/how-do-i-block-merging-prs-using-codacy-as-a-quality-gate/#adjusting-analysis-settings).

My suggestion here is that we mention these advantages directly in the intro of this page, as a way to convince users of the importance of going through the instructions (it will help make the intro more assertive).

Reviewer: It probably helps to think of the page intro as the **Concept** and the sections as the **Tasks**.

[Configure ignore rules](../repositories-configure/ignoring-files.md) to prevent Codacy from analyzing compiled code, third-party libraries, and any collection of files and directories.

![Ignoring files](../repositories-configure/images/ignored-files.png)

## 2. Configuring code patterns {: id="configuring-code-patterns"}

Codacy uses multiple tools to analyze the source code of a program without executing it, looking for code patterns. Each of these patterns matches one or more well-known issues, from simple typos to critical security risks. This type of code inspection is called **static analysis**.

[Configure code patterns](../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md) to adapt analysis tools to your use case, leverage existing configuration files, and start delivering code that’s more secure, performant, and maintainable.

!!! tip

>     To apply the same configurations to multiple repositories, [use a coding standard](../organizations/using-a-coding-standard.md).

Reviewer: Let's [reuse the existing tip](https://github.com/codacy/docs/blob/master/docs/faq/general/how-do-i-block-merging-prs-using-codacy-as-a-quality-gate.md?plain=1#L37-L38), as it highlights the advantage of using coding standards slightly better.

Author: Done

![Configuring the tools and code patterns](../repositories-configure/images/code-patterns.png)

## 3. Adding coverage reports {: id="adding-coverage-reports"}

Code coverage reports detail how much of your code is covered by tests. High code coverage correlates with code that is well-tested, well-maintained, and reliable.

[Add coverage reports to Codacy](../coverage-reporter/index.md) to unify your coverage and static code analysis metrics. You can generate your reports using the best coverage tool for your needs and upload them to Codacy picking from a range of options: CI/CD integration, CLI, Docker, GitHub action, and more.

![Adding coverage reports to your repository](../coverage-reporter/images/coverage-codacy-ui.png)

## Next steps {: id="next-steps"}

> -   Once you’re satisfied with your setup, you can [integrate Codacy with your Git workflow](integrating-codacy-with-your-git-workflow.md) to offer suggestions, flag potential issues, and block problematic pull requests.

Reviewer: Same comment regarding "being more assertive" (to replace the "you can [...]").

The best way to tackle this is to:

1. Figure out the introduction for each page
2. Reuse bits of those intros on the preceding pages
